Practical 7

Aim:-Define a RESTful web service that accepts the details to be stored in a database and performs CRUD operation.
Step 1:-
Click on the Window menu and click on Projects, Files & Services to open it.

Step 2.
Right click on Java DB and then click on Start Server to start the server .

Step 3:-
Now expand Java DB and right click on sample and then click on connect to connect the sample database with server

Step 4:-
Now create a web application with the name CRUD_Operation. A window will open like the following pic.

Step 5:-
Create an entity class. Right click on project name -> New -> Entity Class.

Step 6:-
A window will appear like the below pic. Enter the following data and click on Next.
Class Name -> seller 
Package Name -> com.kk

Step 7:-
Click on Finish.
Step 8:-
Right click on project name -> New -> JSF Pages from Entity Classes

Step 9:-
Select com.kk.seller and click on Add button and then Next button on below.

Step 10:-
A window like below will appear on the screen Enter the data into that window as entered in below pic and click on Next button.

Step 11:-
Now click on Finish.

Step 12:-
Right click on Project Name ◻ New◻ RESTful Web Services from Entity Classes

Step 13:-
Repeat step 9 and then it will go on to the next page. Then enter the com.kk.service in Resource Package and then click on the Finish button.

Step 14:-
Now open seller.java file under com.kk package

Step 15:-
In this file at line number 24, do the right click and select Insert Code.

Step 16:-
A new list will appear. Click on Add Property.

Step 17:-
A new window will open. Enter name as firstName.Then click on OK button. Actually we are setting the getter and setter method for firstName.

Step 18:-
Now right click on the web application name and Deploy it.

Step 19:-
Now right click on the project name and run it.

Step 20:-
A window will open in the browser like below.

Step 21:-
Now click on Show All sellers Items for CRUD operation.

Step 22:-
You can add more data by clicking on Create New seller and can view, edit and
delete by clicking on View, Edit and Destroy option.

Step 23:-
Adding one more data into the database for demo. Just click on Create New seller.
Enter a name into FirstName and id into Id. Now click on Save option to save the data.

Step 24:-
Now click on Show All seller Items to view all records whether our data is entered or not. We can see that one more Shivendra name is appearing.